Welcome back everyone.
So in the last lesson we learned about leveraging the local state values and local state functions that
allow us to set those values inside of a context by passing them into the provider and matching our
actual context value to have a very similar shape as to what it is that we expect to pass around inside
of our application.
So what we need to do now is look at a more complex pattern that allows us to actually provide everything
we need regarding our cards that we use to handle with redux into our application.
But with the context API and what's interesting is that this is actually going to greatly resemble the
provider that we actually receive from react redux because react redux under the hood uses the context
api in order to pass the store as well as everything linked to the actual redux implementation such
as dispatch and maps data props everything connects because of this provider by leveraging the context
API under the hood.
So we are going to end up writing code that actually helps us demystify how it is that we had access
to everything related to the redux store in our application when we wrapped our app inside of this provider
that we got from react redux.
So in order to for us to actually write this pattern what we have to do is actually manually write a
provider component and that provider component is going to be the component that has the local state
that leverages these actual values that we are going to pass into a context that we consume across our
application and all of those values will be all of the reduce or values that we currently hold inside
of our cart reducer.
So here we're going to store card items and the hidden and we might even store the car items count and
the card total all inside of this new context object.
Now let's actually write the code.
So what we're going to do is we are going to create a new folder inside of our source folder called
provider's because we might write multiple providers.
The first one that we want to write is carte so make a cart folder inside of this providers and make
a cart dot provider dot ASX.
Now it's J.S. X because it will be a component and once you've created the car provider we're also going
to need to move the cart utilize file into this folder as well because we're going to now need to leverage
the add item to cart and the remove item to cart functions inside of our new car provider because we're
no longer using redux but more on that later.
Just copy and paste that file into our new cart folder now inside of our cart provider.
Let's import in everything we need.
So we need to import in react because we're writing a functional component we need to import and create
context.
We need to import and use state.
And we also need to import it and use affect.
And I'll explain why we need these in a little bit so just import them for now from react and then let's
also import in those utility functions that we have in our cart utilize.
So we'll import an add item to cart and remove item from cart and these come from our cart utilize and
the actual context that we need to instantiate now is going to end up replacing the cart context that
we just made in the last lesson.
So you can actually just copy this over because this will be the same gnome enclosure that we're using.
So this cart context is going to represent the new one.
The only difference is that it's going to actually need more values because we also need to store the
cart items now so cart items is going to be an empty array and it's going to contain the items that
we add to our cart as we've done throughout this course.
Now we're going to add the actual functions that allow us to modify these cart items including add item
which by default will be an empty function remove item
clear item from cart
as well as one more which is our cart items count.
Now this car items count is going to be the actual count we see in our car icon for how many items we
have we used to be able to set it with selectors but now we can't anymore but we'll explore how we actually
do it with the context API and use effect now that we have our context we actually need to make the
cart provide component that we're going to wrap around the actual application as we see that the react
redux provider does inside of our index J Yes so we just want to write a component that is going to
wrap the same way.
Now what we're going to call it is cart provider and this is going to be equal to a functional component
that of course has children because all the children are going to be all those components that we're
wrapping which represent our entire application and what we're going to do is we are going to render
our cart contact stop provider as the actual thing that is wrapping around all the children and as we
know by doing this we now have access to all of our car context inside of our application because we
wrap the entire application in the provider value of our car context.
So now that we have this we need to start actually defining the functionality of these functions inside
of our car context so we can actually pull out these functions that we had before because we're no longer
leveraging the car context that we had in the last lesson.
We're now leveraging our new car provider component to actually provide the local state and propagation
of these values into this context.
So with that we now have our toggle hit and hit in that we had before on header but now it's in our
car provider component.
We also want access to the car items.
So let's just make a new state that holds car items and set card items
using are you state where the default value is an empty array and then we're also going to do the same
thing for card items count and set items count
which is equal to you state or the default value is.
So now that we have our state functions and values we can actually make our new AD item function so
ad item is going to be us calling set carte items on the new array of all the car items that we want
to update to.
And as we know with our old cart reducer our cart utilize is what we leverage the ad items to cart gives
us back a new array of the actual cart items array that we wanted to represent before inside of redux.
So now we just want our cart provider and the car context to have the new value of that array.
So we're going to say sets cart items meaning that we want to set this cart items value on our local
state equal to what we get back from add item to cart passing in the item that we're trying to get as
well as the existing items so this at item is actually going to be a function that gets the item that
we're trying to add as the argument which we then pass into add item to cart.
So add items to cart takes the existing cart items that we currently have and then add the item into
it.
So this is very similar to our redux code except now we're doing inside of context so now that we have
these functions defined let's actually just test them out before we start moving on and adding all of
the other functions that we're trying to define now inside of this context provider we want to pass
them in to the value as an object.
So we want to pass in hidden our toggle hidden function as well.
We want to pass cart items which is equal to the local state of card items.
We want to pass in our new add item which we just wrote here and let's just pass card items count as
well because we've already defined it so now our car provider is a fully fleshed out component that
we can use.
So let's exploit this out as the default value and import it into our index J S so inside of index J
S we just need to import this new car provider from providers slash cart slash car provider and then
we're going to wrap our entire application in this new provider
now that we have this new car provider.
In fact we can even rapid above our redux.
It doesn't really matter.
It's entirely separate things because we're trying to move away from redux anyways.
It doesn't matter the order.
We might as well even just wrap ours just to show that we have the most access for everything.
It's really insignificant but it's just a matter of where you want to put it.
So I'm just going to put it at the very top level instead now that we have access to our cart context
inside of our entire application by wrapping it with our car provider.
We can start replacing our old head or component that was using the old car context from the last lesson
with the new one that we made inside of our car provider.
So let's just import in the same car context from providers slash cart slash car provider.
But remember a car context is now not the default export but a regular export as we see.
In fact we actually need to export this out as well is a good thing to check.
So now that we're exporting our car context we're importing it in and we need to now pull the hidden
value off of our car context.
So we'll say use context using our new car context which gives us back the whole object of everything
we're storing on the context we destruction off the hidden value which will end up being what we use
inside to determine whether or not to hide or show our car dropdown.
Now of course because we're not using this car context provider anymore we can get rid of this declaration
we had before and now our car icons still has access to car contexts because we've wrapped the entire
application in car context so let's update cart icon as well.
So inside of car icon component we need to replace this context with our new provider context.
And as we know it's not a default export but this actually should still work the exact same way.
So with that code let's see if our code that works if we toggle we see that we're still toggling so
awesome everything is still working let's actually see if we can use our cart items as well as the new
add item function that we wrote in our context as well so the first thing we need to do is replace the
actual dropdown value in our cart dropdown with our new cart items.
So here we're going to import in the used context as well as the actual context that we're trying to
use which is our cart context from our provider's slash cart slash cart provider.
We're going to switch this over to our explicit return
and we're also going to remove our use of cart items coming from our map states props because we don't
need this anymore we're no longer using react and Redux.
So let's just get rid of this make sure that we're not importing what we don't need
and now as we know we'll deal structure off cart items from what we get back from calling use context
from our car context.
So now if we save we should see an empty cart dropped in if we refresh
we see that our cart is empty.
Awesome.
So our car icon unfortunately is still using the actual car items count we had from our selector but
we can fix that later what we need to do now is just make sure that when we add items in we're actually
adding them with our new car context add item function that we wrote.
So let's first replace collection item so in collection item we currently get an item from our map dispatch
so we don't want to use this anymore so let's just get rid of this connect
and we're going to leverage our context using used context and our new car context
from provider's cart cart provider and lucky for us we've already got this defined so that we have the
actual explicit return and we're just going to pull off the add item function from a use context of
our cart content
let's just remove where we were structuring before inside of our props and now we should actually see
our ability to add cart items if we look we should have five items.
So our code works exactly how it did before but now we've converted it over to using car icon.
So let's just quickly go over what we did.
Again what we did was created this new car provider component that has local state that allows us to
update all of the values that we need to store inside of our car context so everything that we were
storing before inside of a reducer we're now storing on the local state of a card provider component.
This car provide a component we then wrap around all of our application and we provide around it the
car context and the values that we're trying to store in our local state as well as the functions that
will set those values.
Now our entire application has access to the car context consumer allowing us to get any of those values
and any of those functions that allow us to modify these values in the local state.
And now as a result our application is able to access everything related to the cart that we are storing
in a context but also mainly storing in the car provider's local state the car context here simply acts
as a vehicle that allows us to pass these functions and these values around inside of our application
because we're wrapping the entire application around the provider of our context value so I know it's
a lot of terminology but honestly the more you look at it I'm sure it will make sense to you but now
that we've done at item we can actually write a couple more so we get more practice and get an idea
of what it is that we're doing.
So let's add remove item and clear item in the next lesson.